# Misinformation  -  disinformation

The ideas behind misinformation draw heavily on the ideas of [[Social Constructionism]] which in todays environment is become and increasing flawed and dangerous approach.

Social constructionism is a theory (1) that suggests a statement or fact is deemed "true" when it is widely cited, replicated, and accepted without disagreement. However, this approach has become extensively problematic in the realm of science, primarily due to the replication crisis (2), which is undermining the fundamental premise of this theory.

In the past two decades, problems caused by seeking reference to social constructionist arguments have been amplified by inherent flaws ingrained within the systems and institutions of scientific research, which serve as the gate keepers of this social construct.

Suppression of views that challenge the mainstream entrenches the the current world view resulting in stagnation and ultimately loss of trust. 

Adherence to a social constructionist point of view may also result in real world harms (insert you favorite example in the comments below). Those responsible for setting a social constructionist policies may seek protection from accountability by pointing to the perceived acceptance of the viewpoint at the time the policy's was set. However, if the system is actively suppressing voices, the system is no longer representing diverse viewpoints, its an echo chamber. The willful ignoring of diverse points of view should be used to hold the policy maker accountable, when policies fail.

Misinformation is a very risky category to address as it often stems from some self identifying majority believing they are right and easily removes dissenting voices that should be listened to. Note diversity of thought is about listening to all voices including ones you disagree with. Failure to do this inevitably results in harm.

Other than in constrained contexts, it is risky to appeal to solid facts. There are observations there are outcomes and there are interpretations.

Information is complex and interpretive, misinformation is often simply an interpretation of the observations that does not suit the observer. 

Disinformation is malicious misinformation. It can be framed as a deliberate misinterpretation of observations designed to shape public opinion, sow confusion, undermine trust, or advance a particular agenda. It may involve distorting facts, fabricating stories, selectively presenting information, or using persuasive techniques to manipulate emotions and beliefs.

The line between misinformation and disinformation can be very thin. From the perspective "Classification" of information / misinformation the risk is that the outcome is highly context specific, making the approach overall net harmful to society. Similarly correctly addressing successful disinformation is often challenging simply because it has a grain of truth attached to it. 

Overall government should keep out of this space, building the framework for dictating the your particular truth, is a recipe for eventual civic collapse. Even if the tool can be effectively used eventually it will be misused and most likely again the very people that created it. 

If you are not seeing "nutters" in your news feed you know the system is broken
